6:00–7:00 AMS President’s Endowed Plenary Lecture (Room?)
Martha Feldman (University of Chicago), Chair
Dwandalyn R. Reece (National Museum of African American History and Culture), “Music and the Meaning of Things”
Guthrie P. Ramsey, Jr. (University of Pennsylvania), Interlocutor



---
title: "Embodiment and Voice in Contemporary Music"
slug: embodiment-voice-contemporary-music
society: SMT
layout: session
time: 'Thursday evening, 8:00–9:30'
room: ''
chair:
    name: Judith Lochhead
    institution: Stony Brook University
papers:
    - jakubowski
    - mason
    - oinas




Joint Session: Extemporaneous Dialogues on Historical Improvisation: Bridging Music, Music History, and Theory (Room?)

A Special Joint Session organized by the SMT Interest Group on Improvisation with Anna Maria Busse Berger (University of California, Davis)
Part I
Massimiliano Guido (University of Pavia), General Introduction
Peter Schubert (McGill University) vs. Peter Schubert (and the audience), “Super librum. Improvising polyphony”
“Father, Son, and Fantasia.” Pamela Ruiter-Feenstra improvises fantasias in the style of J. S. and C. P. E. Bach
“A Galant Conversation Surrounding Mozart’s K. 488,” Johnandrew Slominski (Linfield College) and Gilad Rabinovitch (Georgia State University)
Part II
Anna Maria Busse Berger responds to the performances; discussion follows.
Joint Session: Listening for the “San Antonio Sound” in Tejano Conjunto/Progressive Music (Room?)

Cathy Ragland (University of North Texas), Moderator
Erin Bauer (University of Wisconsin-Whitewater), “The Hybridity of the San Antonio Sound: Cross-Cultural Amalgamations in the Texas-Mexican Accordion Music of Flaco Jiménez, Mingo Saldívar, Esteban Jordan, and Piñata Protest”
Amy Hatch (University of North Texas), “San Antonio’s Progressive Voice: David Lee Garza’s pasadas, a Motivic Analysis of Performance ‘Formulas’”
Cathy Ragland, “‘A Mi San Antonio (For My San Antonio)’: Eva Ybarra’s Dissonance in the Hypermasculine World of Tejano Conjunto”
Joe Treviño (Blue Cat Recording Studio) and Max Baca (Los Texmaniacs), “Crafting ‘La onda Tejana (the Tejano Experience)’ in the Studio, on Stage, and in the Backyard”
Publishing in Journals Roundtable (Room?)

Sponsored by the AMS Committee on Career-Related Issues
Geraldine Richards (Taylor & Francis), Chair
Joy Calico (Vanderbilt University), JAMS
Christopher Gibbs (Bard College), MQ
Loren Kajikawa (George Washington University), JSAM
Deborah Kauffman (University of Northern Colorado), JMR
Rethinking the Enlightenment (AMS) (Room?)

Charles Dill (University of Wisconsin-Madison), Chair
William Weber (California State University, Long Beach), Commentator
Rebecca Geoffroy-Schwinden (University of North Texas)
Andrei Pesic (Stanford University)
Georgia Cowart (Case Western Reserve University)
Olivia Bloechl (University of Pittsburgh)


THURSDAY EVENING SESSION—
8:00–10:30

---
title: Intoxication 
slug: intoxication
society: AMS
layout: session
time: 'Thursday Evening, 8:00–10:30'
chair:
    name: Andrew Hicks
    institution: Cornell University
sponsor: AMS Music and Philosophy Study Group
papers:
    - spencer
    - mcauley
    - abbate
    - szabo
    - taricani

Edward Spencer (University of Oxford), “Beyond Intoxication: On Sobering Experiences of Electronic Dance Music”
Tomas McAuley (University of Cambridge), “Orgasmic Rapture and Devotional Bliss: Schopenhauer on Music and Sex”
Beth Abbate (Boston Conservatory), “
Victor Szabo (Hampden-Sydney College), “
JoAnn Taricani (University of Washington),


THURSDAY EVENING SESSIONS—
8:00–11:00


---
title: The Dynamics of the Job Interview
slug: dynamics-job-interview
society: SMT
layout: session
time: 'Thursday Evening, 8:00–11:00'
chair:
    name: Roger Graybill
    institution: New England Conservatory
    title: Moderator
sponsor: SMT Professional Development Committee
papers: []
panelists:
    - name: Michael Callahan
      institution: Michigan State University
    - name: Philip Duker
      institution: University of Delaware
    - name: Megan Lavengood
      institution: George Mason Universti
    - name: Elizabeth Sayrs
      institution: Ohio University


---
title: "Music, Disability, and the Environment: Bridging Scholarship with Activism"
slug: music-disability-environment
society: AMS/SMT
layout: session
time: 'Thursday Evening, 8:00–11:00'
chair:
    formatted: Jacob Cohen (Macaulay Honors College, CUNY), Anabel Maler (Indiana University), Jessica A. Holmes (University of California, Los Angeles), Chairs
    formatted_short: Jacob Cohen, Anabel Maler, and Jessica A. Holmes, Chairs
papers: ~
panelists:
    - name: Chantal Lemire
      institution: Western University
    - name: Jessica Schwartz
      institution: University of California, Los Angeles
    - name: Ailsa Lipscombe
      institution: University of Chicago
    - name: William Robin
      institution: University of Maryland
    - name: James Deaville
      institution: Carleton University
    - name: Rachel Mundy
      institution: Rutgers University-Newark
sponsor: AMS Music and Disability Study Group, SMT Music and Disability Interest Group, and AMS Ecocriticism Study Group



---
title: "Music at the Border"
slug: music-at-the-border
society: AMS
layout: session
time: 'Thursday Evening, 8:00–11:00'
chair:
    name: Jesús A. Ramos-Kittrell
    institution: University of Connecticut
sponsor: AMS Ibero-American Music Study Group
papers:
    - avila
    - garciacorona
    - amado_thu

Jacqueline Avila (University of Tennessee), “
Léon Felipe García Corona (Northern Arizona University), “Los Tres Reyes Sing to the Westside: Social Change and the Trio Style”
Andrés R. Amado (University of Texas Rio Grande Valley), “Mariachi Mass in San Juan, Texas: Intersections of Faith, Ethnicity and Politics”



---
title: 'Othered within the Other: Marginalized Voices in Jewish Studies'
slug: othered-within-other
society: AMS
layout: session
time: 'Thursday Evening, 8:00–11:00'
chair:
    name: Brigid Cohen 
    institution: New York University
    title: Chair and Respondent
sponsor: AMS Jewish Studies and Music Study Group
papers: ~
panelists:
    - name: Assaf Shelleg 
      institution: Hebrew University of Jerusalem
    - name: Karen Uslin 
      institution: Rowan University
    - name: Kristofer Matthias Eckelhoff 
      institution: Graduate Center, CUNY
    - name: Bobbi Elkamely 
      institution: U.S. Grant Hight School/El Sistema




Perspectives on Public Music Theory and Analysis (SMT) (Room?)

Anna Gawboy (Ohio State University), Chair
J. Daniel Jenkins (University of South Carolina), “Leonard Bernstein’s Public Music Theory”
Christian Thorau (Universität Potsdam, Germany), “Music Analysis, Popularized? Recent Technologies of Interactive Scores for Listeners”
Alexander Rehding (Harvard University), “Graphic Animation as a Tool in Public Music Theory”
Alyssa Barna (Eastman School of Music, University of Rochester), “Music Theory’s Role in Mainstream Digital Journalism”
Miriam Piilonen (Northwestern University), “‘#musictheory Will Be the Death of Me’: Reflections on Tweeted Complaints about Music Theory”
Daniel B. Stevens (University of Delaware), “Pedagogies of Encounter: Community Outreach and the Music Theory Classroom”
Rethinking Amateurism (Room?)

Sponsored by the AMS Popular Music Study Group
Albin Zak (University at Albany), Chair
Elizabeth Craft (University of Utah), “A ‘Merely Entertaining Craftsman’? George M. Cohan and Early Twentieth-Century Discourses of Amateurism and Professionalism”
Vanessa Blais-Tremblay (McGill University), “Vera Guilaroff and the Maple Leaf in (D)Rag: Issues of Identity, Genre, and Historiography with the Novelty Style”
Jeannelle Ramírez (University of Texas at Austin), “‘Make music like a pro’: GarageBand and the Computer as Aspirational Folk Instrument”
Keynote Address: Karl Hagstrom Miller (University of Virginia), “Sound Investments: Amateurs Make American Pop”
Synchronizations (AMS) (Room?)

Brian Kane (Yale University), Chair
Daniel Callahan (Boston College)
Alessandra Campana (Tufts University)
Hayley Fenn (Harvard University)
Marco Ladd (Yale University)
Deirdre Loughridge (Northeastern University)
Roger Moseley (Cornell University)
Stephanie Probst (Deutsches Museum, Munich)
Danielle Simon (University of California, Berkeley)
Mary Simonson (Colgate University)
Teaching and Learning through Interdisciplinarity (Room?)

Sponsored by the AMS Pedagogy Study Group
Paula J. Bishop (Bridgewater State University), Chair
Jessica Getman (University of Michigan) and Lena Leson (University of Michigan), “Online Skills for Real-World Impact: The Gershwin Initiative’s Undergraduate Research Program”
Kimberly Francis (University of Guelph), “Gamified Learning and the Limits of Interdisciplinarity: Lessons from the Scribe Hero Beta Launch”
Sonia Seeman, Robin Moore, and Andrew Dell’Antonio (University of Texas at Austin), “Framing the Undergraduate Music Experience: Toward an Interdisciplinary Approach to the First-Year Course”
Anna Stephan-Robinson (West Liberty University), “‘Musicianship’: An Interdisciplinary Course to Prepare First-Year Music Majors for Success”
Claire Fontijn and Laura Jeppesen (Wellesley College), “‘Musicke’s Recreation’: Musicology Meets Performance in a Blended-Learning Course”
THURSDAY EVENING SESSION—9:45–11:15
Twentieth-Century Art Song: Babbitt and Beyond (SMT) (Room?)

Joshua Banks Mailman (Columbia University), Chair
Matthew BaileyShea (University of Rochester), “A Drunken Leg: Line, Phrasing, and Syntax in Song”
Zachary Bernstein (Eastman School of Music, University of Rochester), “Poetic Form and Psychological Portraiture in Babbitt’s Early Texted Works”
Nicholas Jurkowski (University of California, Santa Barbara), “The Medium and the Message: Milton Babbitt’s Sounds and Words in the Context of the RCA Synthesizer”
